#summary List of the meetings and summaries - Please add organize as you wish

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />
  * 07/06/2010 (group and supervisor) @ 13.00 albert's office 
  * 04/06/2010 (group) @ 11.00 new building
  * 02/06/2010 (group and supervisor)
  * 01/06/2010 (group and supervisor)


= 21-06 = 
every feature needs 2 images
between galleries kullback leiber-divergence over feature space.
questions - what is network structure, image features for patterns, as a recommender system, specific featres for daily deviations can we find a representative work. can we find the mean image of a person. cluster a persons style. 
show distance between galleries
failures

presentation
why DA <br>
questions <br>
patterns we wanna see <br>
present a system <br>
usecase, what is info flow in system <br>
growth of network mowmany new servers <br>
classiefiers, seperating <br>


= literature study = 
network image data
what did they do and reference

=  experiments =
say what you did
not detailed results for failures



= Meeting 11/06/2010 = 
*BJ's notes

== HOMEWORK ==
make experimental setup

-copy blackboard discussions into wiki <br>
-features we discussed: color, hue(median, mean), edge ratio, faces, saliency, weibull, emotions, color temperature, average color <br>
== System ==
 - user will pick an gallery image or other gallery will be recommended<br>
 - system must be efficiently expandable in users features and classifiers<br>
 - for instance use XML to store data so it is easily expandable <br>
 - look at computation time if its feasible for millions of pics <br>
== Experiments ==
 - Make an experimental setup that can be run with different combination of classifiers features and their (hybrid)combinations
  -- for instance 5 fold validation on the same 5 folds <br>
  -- never use the test set till the end. <br>
  -- look at mahalanobis distance for unnormalised distances between galleries
  -- make ROC curves for the experiments
  -- Everything is an experiment and a picture
== Cognitive ==
 - talked about discriminant saliency??? <br>
 - a good journal is trends in cognitive sciences for cognitive grounding of chosen techniques <br>
== Features in general ==
 - Good features have large interclass similarities and small intraclass
 - texture emotions and Weibull were discussed and Perlin? noise generated textures Bart has to look at Marcels work.



= Meeting 07/06/2010 = 
*BJ's notes

-Watch out with metric vs measure, measure is safer, as the comment below also says<br>
-Look at literature firefly recommender systems, as well as LastFM & Pandora<br>
-Make the code so it can be :<br>
 - re-used as a "personal" toolbox <br>
 - make nice code <br>
 - make code that works on millions of images thus: <br>
  -- use openCV because it's quick <br>
  -- use profiler to see where most of the time is lost <br>
-We can use classifiers as a distance measure as explained with the HMM's<br>
-Some saliency stuff was discussed with Davide<br>
-Some network stuff with BJ<br>
-Stock images are difficult but might be a nice expansion.<br>


= Meeting 04/06/2010 =

*Global questions:*
  * Can we use image features to recommend deviants for a given gallery?
  * Can we use those features to cluster (classifier) the images into categories/styles? Given the taxonomy, are there features in our feature vector that can be used to classify these categories?

  * can we improve recommendation accuracy by incorporating the [friends] network?

  * which features are better? cognitive vs statistical recommendations

- measures

  - use favorites as a metric 100 images of artist as train, 100 images including 10 of his favorites as test set.

  - use favorites as a metric 100 images of artist as train, 100 images including 10 of his own work not in the train set.

  - correlation between network distance and "image distance"
 

what are we recommending

recommending one image per gallery

see if it performs on a favorites gallery

limit ourselves to premium accounts