#summary Nick's research log

= Logbook =

== 06/06/2010 ==
  * Continue reading the book. "A *thread* provides a way to bundle a function in your program so that it can run at the same time as another part of the program. In this case, rather than waiting for the data to download, a thread can be used for the download while the main draw() method of the program continues to run."
  * No changes in data/view: skip the draw() loop by using noLoop() to make the app less CPU demanding.



== 04/06/2010 ==
  * Discussed our research questions and ways to validate the results of the system.
  * Updated the project details.
  * Continue reading the book. "The translate() method moves the coordinate system over slightly, giving us a white border: (0, 0) will now be (30, 30), so nothing will be drawn in the left or top 30 pixels of the image"
  * Finished chapter 5. Was not interesting at all for our application. Preprocessing data will be done outside the visualization app.
  * Read the first 192 pages.

== 03/06/2010 ==
  * Started reading the "Visualizing Data" book. Why Processing: "Processing was the right combination of cost, ease of use, and execution speed."
  * Read the first 108 pages of the book. Chapter 3 describes how to make a timeSerie (plot) using Processing.

== 02/06/2010 ==
  * Group discussion to divide the work
  * Installed processing using a Mac .dmg.
  * Installed Eclipse. Added a new project with the Processing lib. Now i'm able to program processing application in Eclipse SDK.
  * Explored a couple visualization frameworks/websites:
     * http://blog.blprnt.com/blog/blprnt/your-random-numbers-getting-started-with-processing-and-data-visualization
    * http://prefuse.org/gallery/
    * http://www.wikiviz.org/wiki/Tools
  * Downloaded the JAR and source code of Mondrian. Can't compile the source code, but JAR runs.
  * Downloaded Prefuse. ~~I think this toolkit is more appropriate for our project then Processing.~~ I contains several plot functions.
     http://www.nickd.nl/dl/ai/is/prefuse_img.png http://www.nickd.nl/dl/ai/is/prefuse_scatter.png
  * Browsed the internet for Processing examples. It is very powerful and offers many features. The drawback is that we need to script more stuff manually, but this enables us to customize is the way we want.
  * Found an interesting book about Processing: "Visualizing Data". Ordered it and going to read it.