#summary Things to be changed in the presentation

= Notes =

 * Add graph of social structure (hubs etc) when talking about members and watchers and stuff.
 * research questions: talk about questions that a art historian might have
 * group gallery and network scraper in the diagram as "data collection"
 * Describe  what else is possible with the deviantart information (comments,favorites,...). Show why deviantart is an interesting research dataset.
 * Research question: What to collect from deviantart
 * Show a visualization of images before introducing features to show what we need features for (discriminating images)
 * grid: compositional features
 * less weibull explanation. Just as future work
 * not cognitive features, but cognitively-inspired features or something like that
 * replace the saliency image with the one in the review paper and remove text (just talk about it).
 * look at the skin image. Why is the black background not 0 skin?
 * show some experiment with multiple classifiers to justify why SVM was used for the final experiment
 * Cross-validation instead of crossvalidation
 * dont use "C" parameters range because the formula isnt introduced
 * Talk about measure of success before talking about classification
 * explain TP, precision, fmeasure
 * show that processing can be integrated in a website
 * Interface could be open to users on the internet with dots instead of images (copyright issues)
 * Scrape categories and create network of categories. Create circle for each category according to the number of images that belong to that category and connect the categories according to how many people produce both categories.